docs(blog): add pwa tech blog 1 (#54)
dhis2/developer-portal: blog/2021-11-19-pwa-tech-1/index.md

---
slug: 2021/11/pwa-tech-blog-1
title: Adding PWA Tech to the App Platform - The Basics
author: Kai Vandivier
author_url: https://github.com/KaiVandivier
author_image_url: https://github.com/KaiVandivier.png
tags: [app platform, pwa, tech]
---

> We are excited about the recent release of PWA features in the App Platform, which you can read about in [this blog post introducing them](https://developers.dhis2.org/blog/2021/11/introducing-pwa), and we think the design challenges we faced in making these features generalizable to any app and the ways we used available technologies to solve those challenges are quite unique and interesting, so we want to share some excerpts from the development process here! This article will also help provide a deeper understanding of how the PWA features work under the hood, which may be relevant to your development purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are excited about the recent release of PWA features in the App Platform, which you can read about in [this blog post introducing them](2021-11-04-introducing-pwa.md), and we think the design challenges we faced in making these features generalizable to any app and the ways we used available technologies to solve those challenges are quite unique and interesting, so we want to share some excerpts from the development process here! This article will also help provide a deeper understanding of how the PWA features work under the hood, which may be relevant to your development purposes.
```

To take advantage of that process, *every* Platform app actually gets a compiled service worker called `service-worker.js` added to the built app whether or not PWA is enabled, and the service worker behaves differently depending on the app configuration (and only gets *registered* if PWA is enabled). If PWA is *not* enabled, the service worker behaves in the [kill-switch mode](https://github.com/dhis2/app-platform/blob/10a9d15efc4187865f313823d5d1218824561fcd/pwa/src/service-worker/utils.js#L25-L46), where it will skip waiting as soon as it’s done installing to claim all open clients, and upon taking control, will unregister itself, delete all caches, then reload the page. After this reload, the service worker will be inactive, and the new app assets will be fetched from the server instead of served by the offline cache, allowing the app will run normally.

> Putting these things together, here’s what happens in a scenario where the kill switch is used:

Reviewer: It could make sense to add the [code linked above](https://github.com/dhis2/app-platform/blob/10a9d15efc4187865f313823d5d1218824561fcd/pwa/src/service-worker/utils.js#L25-L46) for the kill switch here in a code block, and then walk through the steps in relation to that. That way the user doesn't have to flip between two tabs to see the code and your explanation.

4. When the new service worker script is run, it sees that PWA is not enabled, so it activates the kill switch mode. When it installs, it skips waiting to activate and take control immediately, then unregisters itself, clears the caches, and reloads the page.
5. When the page reloads, the app files are requested from the server, which responds with the new ones, and the newly-deployed app loads normally.

By including this kill-switch mode, we prevent apps from getting stuck in the future *and* we unstick apps that have been stuck in the past, like the core apps mentioned above.

## Conclusion

This concludes the discussion of the foundational PWA features that have been introduced in the App Platform, including installability, build tooling to read an app’s config and compile a service worker, caching strategies, and service worker updates and lifecycle management. Hopefully this closer look is interesting for its technical design and is helpful for a deeper understanding of how these features work together to enable offline capability that you’ll start to see in DHIS2 apps, starting with the Dashboard app in version 2.37.0.

> A following article will describe design challenges and solutions for creating the “cacheable sections” and some other App Runtime features that were described in the [PWA introduction article](https://developers.dhis2.org/blog/2021/11/introducing-pwa) released last week; look out for that one if you found this one interesting!

Reviewer: When linking to internal pages, always refer to the `.md` file to allow Docusaurus to resolve the canonical link and detect broken links at build time.

As a bonus it works better locally, and, on GitHub.

> A following article will describe design challenges and solutions for creating the “cacheable sections” and some other App Runtime features that were described in the [PWA introduction article](https://developers.dhis2.org/blog/2021/11/introducing-pwa) released last week; look out for that one if you found this one interesting!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A following article will describe design challenges and solutions for creating the “cacheable sections” and some other App Runtime features that were described in the [PWA introduction article](2021-11-04-introducing-pwa.md) released last week; look out for that one if you found this one interesting!
```
